---
layout: post-no-feature
title: "Top Ten Signs You Work in Memory Care"
description: "Signs you work in memory care"
category: social work
tags: [top ten, social work, career, job, memory care]
---

                                                   TEN SIGNS THAT YOU WORK IN MEMORY CARE

  10. Observing a resident defecate in a trash can is not completely out of the realm of possibility. Having a resident enter your office to defecate in your trash can while you are holding a very important meeting or giving a tour? Just another day in paradise.          

  9. Residents constantly insisting that you never fed them a meal as you remove their partially finished breakfast plate? Typical. Feeding the same resident the same meal multiple times to avoid an argument? Also, typical.
  8. Comparing working in a memory care unit to working in a casino. There are no clocks, the lights are dim, and there’s some weird shit going down.
  7. Attempting to leave work is absolutely exhausting. Resident’s exhibiting behaviors? Must be addressed ASAP. Angry family? Hide in the bathroom until they pass by. Sun downing? It’s real. So. Real.
  6. You are more aware of your resident’s bowel movements than your own.
  5.  People are constantly telling you “you must be a very special person to work here” while you nod knowingly. Then quickly going over the contents of your alcohol cabinet in your head. Coping.
  4. Never having a lunch break. Ever. You have very likely considered eating off of a resident’s plate.
  3.  Bawling like a damn baby when a resident goes out to the hospital or dies. Then trying to play it cool when speaking with their family.
  2. Claiming not to have a favorite resident. Fibber.
  1. You leave work in one of two moods. Either glowing with satisfaction of another selfless day in memory care or mentally updating your resume.
