---
layout: post-no-feature
title: "The Sassy Social Worker's Career History"
description: "A little bit about me"
category: social work
tags: [about me, social work, career, job, history]
---

I graduated from University with a Bachelors in Social Work in May of 2011. Little did I know that my passion to bring positive change to the world would bring personal strife, sleepless nights, and pure frustration. The realization that the little ray of light you bring with you begins to fade with real life work experience. An optimistic, naïve, and energetic introduction into the world of social work was soon jaded. Although I’ve not been in the work force for long; I feel that I have amassed enough knowledge and practical experience to be at least helpful. My goal in writing this blog is to provide an honest and blunt portrayal of the life of a modern day social worker; particularly in relation to elder care. It is my desire to have this be a resource to families and professionals wishing to research elder and dementia care in a blunt, sarcastic, and real way. What I find is that the ugliness and truth of the disease and the search to find appropriate care is often sugar coated with marketing ploys and false truths. Families need a resource that will give them the confidence to ask the hard hitting questions. The knowledge to find care that will best meet their loved ones’ care. On the flip side…..families also need to be aware of how to treat and interact with nursing facility staff. As a long term care employee I know all too well what it is like to be treated negatively by family members. Families seem to forget that we are here as partners to work through this journey together. We are not as adversaries trying to swindle you out of your inheritance.

In 2011 I began my career in social work at a local Area Agency on Aging. I was hired as a case manager; probably the most stereotypical job for a social worker. It was my responsibility to complete PAS Assessments (in facilities and in the community) and was the first time I was spending a great deal of time in nursing facilities. I also was a case manager for those of the Medicaid Waiver that were residing in their homes. Working with the state government to assess the needs of clients and to ensure they had the resources available to them to remain at home. Sounds pretty basic, right? What a sweet little job for a college grad. A twenty something girl….who looked about 15…..with an overly sarcastic and aggressive approach to work. Looking back I can really gain perspective on how fearless I was. Covering eight counties of Indiana and entering the homes of people from all walks of life. The weird shit I’ve seen could fill its own damn book. Homes of hoarders……whoa…..food hoarding? It’s a thing, Google it. Nothing will make your stomach squirm like a kitchen full of rotting eggs. I never quite knew what I might encounter next and the adventure aspect of the job was quite appealing. The other case managers and I loved to share stories on what we had seen, experienced, and escaped. This was also my first introduction to working with dementia patients.

This was my first taste of the real world and as I began to feel more confident with my job role I also became more aware my purpose in society. The real kicker about social work as a profession is that it wouldn’t really exist if there were not problems within our society that needed solving. It’s a problem based profession and I really caught on fast that typical social workers are not well liked. We exist to address problems that nobody else wants to deal with. Adult Protective Services, Child Protective Services, Ombudsman……the list goes on and on. What this means as a case manager is that typically our clients are not exactly pleased that we are there. They dread our phone calls, questions, and visits. Our presence is evidence of their failures, shortcomings, and need for help. After two years of case management I was ready to move on. The day to day duties were beginning to wear me down. The paperwork and working within the confines of a government run not for profit were too limiting for me.  After leaving college it was my desire to work with the elderly and I found that my caseload was beginning to fill up with clients that were morbidly obese or mentally ill. I felt disgruntled that Medicaid Waiver wasn’t strictly benefitting the elderly and began to seek a job that would lead me back to my original purpose.

Thus begins my experience working in long term care. In May 2013 I was hired as a Social Service Assistant at a long term care facility in Indiana. It was there that I was trained to work with families with loved ones in nursing facilities.  It was also there that I realized how fucking crazy people are. How families will project their anger and grief on you in a heartbeat. Verbally tear you down in some misplaced attempt to alleviate the guilt of dumping their loved one in a facility. Great. I had left one basket case job for another….then I realized that this must be well hidden social work secret. Social work is a thankless profession; one must possess an undying eternal passion and motivation to continue in order to be successful.  If you are expecting external support, thank yous or a moderate deal of respect….you might want to find something else. Since joining the field in 2011 I have been told twice by families that they appreciate the work that I do. I expect that gratefulness from families occurs about once a year. Yay. Otherwise they address you with dread/raging anger (woot woot) or indifference. The facility offered rehab, long term care, assisted living, and memory care.  The full spectrum of aging in place and was operated with efficiency. Not long after, November 2013, I moved to a sister campus as the Director of Social Services. Yet another change of scenery would occur about a year later as I moved to the challenging world of memory care.
